So we are done now with our fee model, which was pretty much the last piece.
So now we are ready to use a view model where it's appropriate and hopefully save something to our database
and then hopefully also retrieve that something in our user interface and our comparables.
So that is very simple when we add a new CD.
What will happen is we want to add a heart icon as a seat like that.
And to top it there in our eye bar.
And then when they save users, click on their app icon or rather they click on the heart.
That will trigger to say that we want to save the city, right?
Into our database, into our favorites database or table.
OK.
That's the idea.
Which means then when we go back into our favorites, right when we show.
Let's see here real quick.
When we go back and click on our Favorites dropdown menu, there we're going to be.
Looking at when we go, be able to see.
This favorite added that city that we just added showing here, where are we going to be able to delete
that favorite city if we need to do so?
And also when we click that favorite, we want to go back to our main screen and retrieve the data,
the information, the weather, the weather information about that city.
So that is the structure we are going to be putting together here.
So that means that we have to go back, of course, to our App Bar, Weather, App Bar and add this
structure here.
That's very simple.
Of course we've seen that before.
Let's go to our app bar.
I don't see it from here.
It's OK.
Let's go to Maine, I think it's much easier Maine screen.
And then.
There is not bar.
Click on that.
OK, so that means that in our our bar here, what are we going to do is I'm going to pass after our
nav controller, I'm going to pass the few models and say, if you model.
I say favorite view model like this, it's much better, and I'm going to go ahead and instantiate it
right away is going to be built few model as such.
OK, now the beauty, because it's instantiated like there's that means whatever we call this weather
app, I don't have to pass it along, right?
Notice that if we save this everywhere that it's called, I don't feel, Oh, there is no need for us
to pass that along or even call it right because it's instantiated here.
That way, it's fine.
So we can actually use inside here instead of our weather app bar.
We have to remember that this only shows on main screen, that means because we know that our weather
app bar was created, so that is customizable, meaning we can use it anywhere we want by customizing
a few things here and there.
If you scroll down, you'll see that we have a place where we check.
If it's main screen, here you go, if it's main screen, that's actually where we want to show this
heart icon.
So let's see.
Let's go ahead and look, where are we going to position this icon there?
So back to our weather app bar.
Let's scroll down until we find or says navigation icon.
So we have an if statement here.
If there's an icon, it's not at all.
We're going to add some sort of an icon there.
So what I'm going to do after this if statement there, of course, want to create another if statement
here because I want to check a few things.
First of all, this has to happen if is main sponsor is Maine is true, we are in Maine screen.
This is the only place I want this to happen, right?
To have this, this icon there, the heart icon favorite icon.
So I'm going to check if that's true.
OK, if that's true, then I'm going to.
Then I'm going to show the icons and I say icon Mitch Painter.
I'm going to see icons default, you know, one of the favorite.
Can use border, that's fine.
And this is going to be fave favorite icon for our description.
Right.
OK, we can also pass in modified here to modify things are long.
And I'm going to clip.
They're going to scale.
Let's go ahead and scale this to zero nine f like this.
And I also want to make this clickable because, you know, we need that so we can save.
All right.
Let's see.
And for now, that's fine, let's go ahead and run real quick so we can see that logic actually is going
to give us what are we looking for?
It's been a while since we opened or run this app, so let's see.
All right.
It ran fine, and there is that very nice heart icon, as you see there.
OK.
It looks good.
Now, the reason why you see that we have it's a little bit different actually from this is because
we I'm using something different here.
So here I can not to change any sort of border to just say favorite.
If you want to be exactly like what we had, what do we have here?
You just put favorite like this.
And of course, I will have to.
OK.
It's there.
That's the color, but we can change also the tent collars, if you have over after a modifier, we
can pass a tent.
So right there I can say tent color can say color red and then a copy.
Just change the alpha channel here to about 0.6.
OK, this one more time real quick so we can see.
How this will work.
We'll look.
OK, now it looks similar exactly like this.
Either way, whatever you want.
That's terrifying.
I'm just going to show you a few options there and you make the decision.
OK, there we go now.
Once we have the structure and we have the clickable event there where we can then click something,
this will happen.
What is that we want to happen?
Well, we want to insert into our favorite class and our favorite table entity, sort of two things
write one, insert the city and the country.
How do we do that?
Well, look how simple this is because we are passing along our favorite view model.
I can just use our favorite fuel model here.
So favorite view model.
You can say die and invoke to insert favorite and pass a favorite object.
Well, I can create a favorite object right now here.
And if ever object needs two parameters, two arguments for one is the city.
How do I get to city?
Well, here's the thing.
To get the city, we have access to our city, the great thing is that we have this city sitting there
no pun intended because this is the title that we get, which is the city and of course, the country.
So this is going to serve us really well because remember, we have access to it.
It's here as a title that every passing around.
Right.
This title there and so forth.
So really, what we can do, we can split this city into two things.
One is the city name, and the second part is going to be the country code.
Oh, look at that, we using our smarts for good.
OK, so back here, what I'm going to do well, I'm going to use tidal and say split like this and we're
split from where we have comma, right, split from where we have that comma there.
And once we do that, what I want to do is I want to get the first item from our comma.
All right, so in this case, I'm just getting San Diego right.
And then the next, which is going to be country like this.
Remember, we're inside of our favorite instantiated favorite object there for a country here, I'm
going to pass again.
Tile say split.
Do the same thing.
Actually, I don't even have to split anymore what I can do.
Look at this.
We are programmers, so we can.
I can just extract this.
So we can reuse it sort of factor.
Extract that.
There you go.
You can see now, says City, right?
And I can go further to say instead of getting just the key, I'm just going to split savvy in this
case.
Data analyst call it there, because this is going to be when we split something right, we're going
to have an array, right?
So we're going to have an array that will have index zero.
The city index one is going to be the tied to the country code.
So I'm going to just use that now data list and get the zero part.
And for the country, I'm going to data list and get the second part of their right.
All right.
So this is going to be city name,
country code.
And we have it.
Is this true?
Well, let's test it out, see if this works to save this.
Let's run.
OK, there we go.
I'm going to click here.
Click.
Hopefully, San Diego was indeed saved.
And we're going to open look at.
And you can see.
That first was empty, our faves.
And now we have favorite who have an actual object.
San Diego Country USA.
I remember this we added that into I believe or view model, is that true?
Yes, I got faves.
It's giving it a list, the value that we have in our list, which in this case a list containing a
favorite object.
In this case, San Diego has city and country USA, so it's working.
If I go somewhere else in search for Seattle.
And here I'm going to click.
And we will see that now, country, we have San Diego waiting faves, and for another favorite, we
have Seattle and the country USA, USA.
If I decide, perhaps just to be more inclusive Moscow.
OK.
Let's save it saved, and you can see now it's getting the information from a database because you can
because we actually are saving something Moscow City Country, Russia.
Wonderful.
It's working.
Yay.
OK.
Wow.
A lot of work for little reward.
No, I'm kidding.
This is a huge thing and we are able or we were able to put the infrastructure from the beginning together,
right?
We started slow small, the first structure here, room database, Dow, Single Identity and everything.
And then we moved on to creating repository and view model.
And now we are here kind of really in a way in that we are able to save things to our database.
And if we can say things sort of the ways and means we are able to retrieve those things in this case,
our favorite list of cities and so forth.
OK, so the main goal is going to be to show that in our favorites, this what we have here, right?
So that's what I'm going to be doing next.
We're going to go back and look our favorite composable or screen and start putting together this structure.